README.md, before:

# Assignment 1 - Introduction to Python!

Hi All, as we progress on the course, assignments needs to come, so there you go, your very first assignment!

As I said, this assignment won't be a full coverage on python, but rather it would be a warmer for you to get hands on experience to the stuff we need in the upcoming weeks of this course. Therefore, in this repository, we will use python to solve some basic tasks, work with jupyter notebooks, set an environment, in a proper way, using python standard environments.

## How You Should Start to a Project!

By creating an **environment!**

Environments is a box for your project in order to keep a clean definition of what your project needs as dependencies, makes your project works safely by not messing up with your local packages, and so on. It is a good practice to use environments as you get yourself involved in more complicated projects!

Before talking about environments, I want to give you a brief description of how python works. You can install python through standard python distribution or other distributions such as Anaconda. 

When you install it with Anaconda, it comes with additional packages in addition to standard python libraries. Therefore, when you launch anaconda, conda starts the base environment, which has all the additional packages in, and you will be able to use imports right in there. 

If you choose to install the standard python, then you only get the standard python libraries, with no additional package. 

Python or Anaconda lets you install packages using packages managers, pip and conda, and the packages will be downloaded and installed to your `site-packages` folder. The packages installed in your local system, will be accessible to all the projects, where you use your local python.

Now, lets assume that you are working on two projects, where you use a third party package that both of the projects depends on it. In one of your projects, you built so much using this third party package, and you don't want to upgrade the package for stability reasons. In this situation if you do `pip install --upgrade dependency_package`, both of your projects will use the upgraded version of this dependent package.

This is a common use case for environments. You keep your dependency packages fixed! Luckily, working with environments is very easy.

<h3> Create an Environment </h3>

You can create an environment like this using standard python. For Anaconda, use [managing environments documentation](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html) to create conda environments. For our class, you can create one environment to use for all future assignments!

``` sh
python -m venv spu-bigdataanalytics-env
```

Installing package dependencies will be easy with a `requirements.txt` file. 

``` sh
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

There are more commands of pip like `pip list`, `pip freeze`, and so on.

### Use an Environment

To use an environment, you need to **activate** it. You can google all this stuff, but for assignments sake, I am putting it here. It changes based on your operating system.

For mac and linux, like following.

``` sh
# mac/ linux
source path/to/your/envronment/bin/activate
```

For windows, as in below.

``` ps1
# windows
C:\Path\to\Your\Environment\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

To deactivate, like in below for all operating systems.

```
deactivate
```

Very easy.

## How to Use Jupyter Notebooks

Jupyter notebooks is a python package. You can install it like this. After installing, verify the installation by using the command `jupyter --version` to get the version.

``` sh
python -m pip install jupyterlab
```

To run a jupyter notebook, you can use the following. You can use `--generate-config` to customize jupyter, or you can pass options during launching.

``` sh
jupyter notebook --notebook-dir="path/to/your/project/"
```

<h2> Tasks </h2>

You should create a notebook to do the following tasks in below. 

<!-- TODO: Create an example notebook to illustrate how notebooks should be. -->
While working on your notebooks, you should also create headings, subsections for each task, under subsections, you must explain your code. Your code should also have comments, and you should save your result into a variable and in another cell, you should print your results. Check out the example notebook for your future reference.

- Create a function to find nth number within the [fibonacci series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number).
- Use object-oriented programming logic and create two classes. The first class will represent animals, second class will represent dogs. Create features to both of your classes and illustrate object oriented logic by inheriting parent classes attributes in your child class.
- Create a one-line function to calculate the nth power of given two inputs, a and b. Use your one-line with real numbers and print your output.
- Create a module with the following functions.
    - A function to concatenate given first and last name.
    - A function to calculate an age given the birth year.
    - A class to represent a person with following attributes: `first_name`, `last_name`, `birth_year`.
    - Import everything from your module and create an instance from your person class. Use the functions from your module to find the age, and the full name of the person instance you created.
- Create a decorator function that prints before and after the execution of the function it is used with.
<!-- TODO: Expand examples with more, maybe with hackerrank examples -->

## Your To-Do List for This Task

- [ ] Create your environment and install the requirements folder.
- [ ] Complete the tasks by creating a jupyter notebook.
- [ ] Once you done, do your final commit and zip it to upload to the blackboard!

Commit message:

tasks expanded with more & sample notebook

README.md, after:

# Assignment 1 - Introduction to Python!

Hi All, as we progress on the course, assignments needs to come, so there you go, your very first assignment!

As I said, this assignment won't be a full coverage on python, but rather it would be a warmer for you to get hands on experience to the stuff we need in the upcoming weeks of this course. Therefore, in this repository, we will use python to solve some basic tasks, work with jupyter notebooks, set an environment, in a proper way, using python standard environments.

## How You Should Start to a Project!

By creating an **environment!**

Environments is a box for your project in order to keep a clean definition of what your project needs as dependencies, makes your project works safely by not messing up with your local packages, and so on. It is a good practice to use environments as you get yourself involved in more complicated projects!

Before talking about environments, I want to give you a brief description of how python works. You can install python through standard python distribution or other distributions such as Anaconda. 

When you install it with Anaconda, it comes with additional packages in addition to standard python libraries. Therefore, when you launch anaconda, conda starts the base environment, which has all the additional packages in, and you will be able to use imports right in there. 

If you choose to install the standard python, then you only get the standard python libraries, with no additional package. 

Python or Anaconda lets you install packages using packages managers, pip and conda, and the packages will be downloaded and installed to your `site-packages` folder. The packages installed in your local system, will be accessible to all the projects, where you use your local python.

Now, lets assume that you are working on two projects, where you use a third party package that both of the projects depends on it. In one of your projects, you built so much using this third party package, and you don't want to upgrade the package for stability reasons. In this situation if you do `pip install --upgrade dependency_package`, both of your projects will use the upgraded version of this dependent package.

This is a common use case for environments. You keep your dependency packages fixed! Luckily, working with environments is very easy.

<h3> Create an Environment </h3>

You can create an environment like this using standard python. For Anaconda, use [managing environments documentation](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html) to create conda environments. For our class, you can create one environment to use for all future assignments!

``` sh
python -m venv spu-bigdataanalytics-env
```

Installing package dependencies will be easy with a `requirements.txt` file. 

``` sh
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

There are more commands of pip like `pip list`, `pip freeze`, and so on.

### Use an Environment

To use an environment, you need to **activate** it. You can google all this stuff, but for assignments sake, I am putting it here. It changes based on your operating system.

For mac and linux, like following.

``` sh
# mac/ linux
source path/to/your/envronment/bin/activate
```

For windows, as in below.

``` ps1
# windows
C:\Path\to\Your\Environment\Scripts\Activate.ps1
```

To deactivate, like in below for all operating systems.

```
deactivate
```

Very easy.

## How to Use Jupyter Notebooks

Jupyter notebooks is a python package. You can install it like this. After installing, verify the installation by using the command `jupyter --version` to get the version.

``` sh
python -m pip install jupyterlab
```

To run a jupyter notebook, you can use the following. You can use `--generate-config` to customize jupyter, or you can pass options during launching.

``` sh
jupyter notebook --notebook-dir="path/to/your/project/"
```

## How Assigments will be Evaluated?

Your assignments will be evaluated by the following list of things.

- How much checkboxes were you able to finish from [your list for the assignment](#your-to-do-list-for-this-task).
- Your repository organization.
- Your notebook readability and outputs.
- Your reproducibility of your assignment.

<h2> Tasks </h2>

You should create a notebook to do the following tasks in below. 

<!-- TODO: Create an example notebook to illustrate how notebooks should be. -->
While working on your notebooks, you should also create headings, subsections for each task, under subsections, you must explain your code. Your code should also have comments, and you should save your result into a variable and in another cell, you should print your results. Check out the example notebook for your future reference.

- **Task-01:** Create a function to find nth number within the [fibonacci series](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fibonacci_number).
- **Task-02:** Use object-oriented programming logic and create two classes. The first class will represent animals, second class will represent dogs. Create features to both of your classes and illustrate object oriented logic by inheriting parent classes attributes in your child class.
- **Task-03:** Create a one-line function to calculate the nth power of given two inputs, a and b. Use your one-line with real numbers and print your output.
- **Task-04:** Create a module with the following functions.
    - A function to concatenate given first and last name.
    - A function to calculate an age given the birth year.
    - A class to represent a person with following attributes: `first_name`, `last_name`, `birth_year`.
    - Import everything from your module and create an instance from your person class. Use the functions from your module to find the age, and the full name of the person instance you created.
- **Task-05:** Create a decorator function that prints before and after the execution of the function it is used with.
- **Task-06:** In this repository, there is a file called `numbers.txt`. This file has 100 lines of 50 digit long numbers. Calculate the sum of all 100 numbers and get the last 10 digit. Use `map` function of python while doing this task.
- **Task-07:** The series of `1^1 + 2^2 + 3^3 + ... + 10^10` equals to 10405071317. Find the last 10 digits of the following series: `1^1 + 2^2 + 3^3 + ... + 500^500`. Use `reduce` function while doing this assignment.

## Your To-Do List for This Task

- [ ] Create your environment and install the requirements folder.
- [ ] Task 01
- [ ] Task 02
- [ ] Task 03
- [ ] Task 04
- [ ] Task 05
- [ ] Task 06
- [ ] Task 07
- [ ] Once you done, do your final commit and zip it to upload to the blackboard!
